- friends its Julie and today I'm going
to be talking about the container
gardening I'm doing to grow veggies and
fruits that are a part of my rosacea
friendly diet
I started off a few years ago doing this
and these two books by the way are
awesome this is not a sponsored video
but I do highly recommend checking them
out I'll put links to them in the
description below but I have now moved
to a new home that has an even better
balcony a ship and my last one it has a
lot more sunlight than the under four
hours and I had the last time so I am
deciding to grow a huge vegetable and
fruit garden to go with my rosacea
friendly diet and here is exactly how
I've done it I started off with these
little pea pods because I do everything
from seed because as much as possible
I'm growing organically
these are awesome little peat pods
they're just peat moss in these little
sort of netted thingies
they're completely dried out and skinny
when you first get them and then you add
water and they absorb a tremendous
amount of it super super fast in fact
you'll see in this video that I
completely underestimated it the amount
of water needed and I have to keep
adding it all the way through but they
start off really skinny and then they
grow very quickly and they grow
surprisingly tall every time I use them
it surprises me and it's so much fun to
Google it really brings out the kidney
and yeah so here is exactly how I did it
I recorded every moment of the beet
process and then a little bit of the
actual planting if you want to call it
that but yeah so what I am going to be
planting on my balcony or what I've
actually already done so not in this
videos yet is two kinds of tomatoes
cherry tomatoes and grape tomatoes I've
grown two kinds of lettuce curly leaf
lettuce and romaine lettuce
I've got basil I have personally I have
snow peas and regular green peas and
yellow beans and green beans and I'm
also growing broccoli for the first time
this year which I'm extremely excited to
the host because just because I've never
done it before and I'm hoping that well
all of these things have spread it so
far just a little spoiler alert to where
this video is going but they have
spreaded so far but if they don't end up
actually growing into a really healthy
plant then I will go to a garden center
and get a pre sprouted one but I like
growing everything from seed that's a
lot of fun for me and it does start it
with these little peat pods and if
you've been watching then you can see
that they have been growing super super
quick quickly
I'm sorry that I filmed this with my old
camera I really regret doing that now it
will slip to the new camera later on in
this video but I thought it would be
cool to leave the old camera right near
the area where I was starting my garden
so that I could just pick it up and
constantly do it and I can see now those
that was a mistake because it keeps
going blurry as it tries to focus but I
did want to actually use the footage
because it was you know it was the one
that I used right from the start but
yeah as you can see these sleep pods are
growing super super fast this is not
sped up this is actually how quickly
they go it's a lot of fun to watch you
can even see the water level dropping as
the little things grow really quickly I
tried sticking my finger in there to
show exactly how much they've expanded
but they're really cool I just got them
at the dollar store that is within
walking distance of my home and so they
are available absolutely everywhere and
then they grow so much that the tops
kind of bust open and then I just jam
the seeds into those open busted tops
once they finish growing see it's now
all dried up right in front of your very
eyes Christmas and so yes and then I
plant seeds right on the top so I'm
actually in this footage I'm adding more
water because I didn't add enough I
completely underestimated too even
though that was the second batch for the
season but you can see that they are
soaking up the water so quickly that
it's moving over to the left right there
I just personally find that really cool
it's like those old cloths or towels
that come in those little pellets and
then you add water and they expand I
used to love those when I was a kid and
that's what it always reminds me of so
yeah so
I like to grow my own vegetables as much
as possible not only because it's a huge
amount of fun but it is also a great way
to get the maximum possible amount of
nutrients out of your food I mean I like
to shop at farmer's markets and places
like that in the summertime but it is
even closer if all I have to do is walk
to my balcony and then pick the food and
then eat it pretty much within the next
few minutes so that means that it has
not had the chance to lose any of its
vitamins and minerals and all the other
good things in it and the better the
nutrition that you can get the better it
is for your skin and when it comes to
rosacea the better you can give your
skin the worthwhile the effort so I just
I absolutely love growing these things
this is a about three days later well
this is a previous batch but this is
about three days in you can see that the
peas have already sprouted the lettuce
is down on the end and the second from
me and those two are broccoli those who
spread it and then there's a little
teeny little lettuce that's right there
at the surface of the soil I was so
excited for the best I absolutely love
growing things from seed I've been doing
that since I was in very early I think
first or second grade I just love that
so that's the first batch and here I'm
getting ready for the second batch M a
few days later because I'm going to kind
of load up on a whole new patch of
veggies and things so this footage is
from a few weeks ago and I made sure to
just kind of keep it keep track of the
whole thing if you follow me on
Instagram then you know that I'm
interacting the whole process so after
all the water was absorbed I did add
some seeds those were the broccoli seeds
and then the two kinds of fees and there
are some beans in there
and those ones are I believe those are
the basil one of my camera had a hard
time focusing they're the little gray
things right in the very middle and then
we have lettuce on the very very end I
tried to plant a lot of lettuce so that
I'll be able to harvest it quite
regularly I'm really hoping for kind of
a large crop despite the fact that I
have a balcony garden and it's all in
containers I was hoping for a lot some
of the things are extremely tiny my
camera had the hardest time focusing on
them but I
trying to show them to you there right
there the little gray sort of dots but
yeah so that's what it looked like as
soon as I planted them I didn't even
bother jamming them all the way down
I just set them in so that they would
get wet if you follow me on Instagram as
I said here's one of the pictures that I
posted and then here are the progress
reports as everything started to
germinate and sprout and then here are
some tomato plants that I got at a kit
at a local dollar store I didn't even
think it would grow but they absolutely
did the peas were growing so quickly
there but then the lettuce on the very
right was very tall - again there's the
peas they are just they're such a
rewarding thing to plant if you want to
do it from scratch and here is a here
are all the plants the first thing this
morning I decided I would plant them so
those are all the cherry tomatoes that I
did is my dollar store experiment if you
ever buy tomato seeds from the dollar
store they will grow I have 30 of them
right now so I've landed them all and
I'll weed out all the ones that are kind
of weaker and that fall down but yeah so
here where all of my little sprouts
surprisingly enough the thing that did
the worst for the beans which I've had
tons of luck with in the past I had only
two of them sprout there's one of them
right there in the middle and then later
today I finally planted everything out
on the balcony I took all my little
sprouts and I put them into their
containers very successful it took a
long time and it hurt my back but
they're all out there so there's some
broccoli and then here's my here my
beans the one tall one and there's a
little teeny one on the left that you
won't see because it's behind the rusty
angel from several years ago
here are some lettuce plants that I've
plant that I've put out there and then
some peas and snow peas and then this
year I've also tried these plastic plush
things you'll see it after these peas
here which I'm so proud of which is why
I sold one so heavily and the lettuce
and the basil and bee parsley that are
in this little container here but the
cloche that I was talking about they
look like this
they're supposed to protect from frost I
sincerely doubt they'll do that but what
I'm hoping for is because I don't have a
shelter over top of me they'll stop my
little sprouts from getting beaten down
from the rain when it happens these are
some of the tomato plants so I put some
of the tomatoes and some of the other
plants under the cloches
and I have left some of them out in the
open kind of as an experiment to see
what goes what works better but oddly
the tomatoes see how it's fogged up like
that it's like it created its own little
rainforest in there so I'm hoping the
sunlight will get through it they are
vented I tried to show their how they're
vented you can open and close it so if
they're supposed to be Frost then I
could close that I'm hoping there won't
be any more frost for the year because
for goodness sake it is halfway through
May but I have got my little turtle
bobblehead guy watching over my garden
see it music cutest I just love them I
need a name for them if anybody has a
suggestion for a name for my turtle
please do suggest it in the comments
below are there yeah so that would be my
container garden with its progress every
now and again and I hope you like this
video if you did please give it a thumbs
up and if you want to see more videos
like this I hope you subscribe to my
channel I make new videos every Sunday
and Thursday and other than that I will
see you next time
[Music]
you